
<p>



PROGRAMMING

- swervekinematics can be found on Chief Delphi

if you want to code yours from scratch, it is reccomended you do so in the offseason, as coding swerve from scratch is pretty hard.  


overall, the architecture goes like this 



COAX 

each module has an axon, with a "polarity" value.  you can set your axis however you want.  In this example I will use the typical quandrant
setup


the "top right" or "front right" will be 1,1, the bottom left will be -1, -1.  

the top right axon will turn to a set angle, calculated by the x and y values of your left joystick, which will determine the overall 
direction of motion of the robot.  

each other axon will turn to a set angle, with an offset based on its quandrant.  for example, -1,-1 will have it be offset by 180 degrees. 
if you are using swerve mode axons (unprogrammed mk2 minis) then they will not require a PID, as they will be registered in software
as servo mode with a built in PID.  if you are using CR mode with 4th wire encoders, use a pid, although typically only p is neccesary.  

keep p values VERY LOW at first while tuning as it is extremely sensitive.  cooking an axon is like losing 90 dollars.  try like 0.0005
motor velocity can be also set with a separate pid for more stable driving but is not neccesary, and it will require more encoders.  

congrats! you're a third of the way there!

next, comes rotation.  Add in a separate "rot" vector into your functions for driving.  Then add it in to each pod.  






Driver augmentations
DRIVE SWERVE IN FIELD CENTRIC - field centric swerve is strictly better.  If your driver cant handle it, suck it up.  It enables 
significantly better rotations and control

The only thing field centric requires is the rotations of all the vectors.  As a result, you can simply replace it with the function
rotation formula ( this is why we split up the drive vectors earlier into forward and strafe)



next, we have heading control.   




And now, youre done with programming (teleop).  


</p>

